Update Log proxy instruction (#6734)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/agent/logs/proxy.md

---

> title: TCP proxy for logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Proxy for logs
```

Author: So actually, I would like to have explicitly TCP in the title so that we have the main proxy documentation that is for HTTPS for all data type and this specific page if they are using TCP.

Reviewer 2: 👌 Sounds good @NBParis - sorry for the delay on this.

Log collection requires the Datadog Agent v6.0+. Older versions of the Agent do not include the `log collection` interface.

## HTTPS log Forwarding

> **We recommend to [configure the Agent to send logs in HTTPS][2]** and to use the same [set of proxy settings][2] as other data types.

Reviewer 3: The second link points to send logs over https rather than the proxy section (https://docs-staging.datadoghq.com/nils/log-proxy-instructions/agent/proxy)

> **We recommend to [configure the Agent to send logs in HTTPS][2]** and to use the same [set of proxy settings][2] as other data types.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**As a best practice, [configure the Agent to send logs in HTTPS][2]** and to use the same [set of proxy settings][2] as other data types.
```

Author: It is actually not a best practice but an actual recommendation. Not sure how we want to phrase it (working on having a graphic to better explain why we recommend it).

In a close future, HTTPS will be the default but we cannot document what is not available today unfortunately.

Reviewer 2: That makes sense, thanks for the info. Updated to _it is recommended_ as we can't use we.

> **We recommend to [configure the Agent to send logs in HTTPS][2]** and to use the same [set of proxy settings][2] as other data types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Datadog recommends to [configure the Agent to send logs in HTTPS][2]** and to use the same [set of proxy settings][2] as other data types.
```

* `DD_LOGS_CONFIG_SOCKS5_PROXY_ADDRESS`

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

## Examples of TCP proxy

### Using HAProxy as a TCP Proxy for Logs

> This example explains how to configure the Datadog Agent to send logs in TCP to a server with Haproxy installed and listening on port `10514` to then forward the logs to Datadog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example explains how to configure the Datadog Agent to send logs in TCP to a server with HAProxy installed and listening on port `10514` to then forward the logs to Datadog.
```

`agent ---> haproxy ---> Datadog`

> The encryption is disabled between the Agent and Haproxy which is then configured to encrypt the data before sending it to Datadog.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The encryption is disabled between the Agent and HAProxy which is then configured to encrypt the data before sending it to Datadog.
```

# Some sane defaults
defaults
    log     global
    option  dontlognull
    retries 3
    option  redispatch
    timeout client 5s
    timeout server 5s
    timeout connect 5s

# This declares a view into HAProxy statistics, on port 3833
# You do not need credentials to view this page and you can
# turn it off once you are done with setup.
listen stats
    bind *:3833
    mode http
    stats enable
    stats uri /
    
# This declares the endpoint where your Agents connects for
# sending Logs (e.g the value of "logs.config.logs_dd_url")
frontend logs_frontend
    bind *:10514
    mode tcp
    default_backend datadog-logs
    
# This is the Datadog server. In effect any TCP request coming
# to the forwarder frontends defined above are proxied to
# Datadog's public endpoints.

backend datadog-logs
    balance roundrobin
    mode tcp
    option tcplog
    server datadog agent-intake.logs.datadoghq.com:10516 ssl verify required ca-file /etc/ssl/certs/ca-certificates.crt check port 10516
```

**Note**: Download the certificate with the following command:
        * `sudo apt-get install ca-certificates` (Debian, Ubuntu)
        * `yum install ca-certificates` (CentOS, Redhat)

> The file might be located at `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-bundle.crt` for CentOS, Redhat.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If successful, the file will be located at `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-bundle.crt` for CentOS, Redhat.
```

Reviewer 2: Cecilia recommended wording for "might" and I think it could be applicable here. Let me know your thoughts.

    stats socket /tmp/haproxy

# Some sane defaults
defaults
    log     global
    option  dontlognull
    retries 3
    option  redispatch
    timeout client 5s
    timeout server 5s
    timeout connect 5s

# This declares a view into HAProxy statistics, on port 3833
# You do not need credentials to view this page and you can
# turn it off once you are done with setup.
listen stats
    bind *:3833
    mode http
    stats enable
    stats uri /
    
# This declares the endpoint where your Agents connects for
# sending Logs (e.g the value of "logs.config.logs_dd_url")
frontend logs_frontend
    bind *:10514
    mode tcp
    default_backend datadog-logs
    
# This is the Datadog server. In effect any TCP request coming
# to the forwarder frontends defined above are proxied to
# Datadog's public endpoints.

backend datadog-logs
    balance roundrobin
    mode tcp
    option tcplog
    server datadog agent-intake.logs.datadoghq.eu:443 ssl verify required ca-file /etc/ssl/certs/ca-bundle.crt check port 443
```

**Note**: Download the certificate with the following command:

* `sudo apt-get install ca-certificates` (Debian, Ubuntu)
* `yum install ca-certificates` (CentOS, Redhat)

> The file might be located at `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-bundle.crt` for CentOS, Redhat.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The file might is located at `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-bundle.crt` for CentOS, Redhat.
```

Author: Are you sure about `might is located` ?

Reviewer 2: Sorry - Github has been having save/recommendation issues all day so it suddenly saved a bunch of suggestions I was in the middle of.

I meant to note that we shouldn't say "might" as it makes it sound like we're guessing it'll be in a location. It's better to use is if we do know, but if we're unsure, then we should either verify or remove.

> The file might be located at `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-bundle.crt` for CentOS, Redhat.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If successful, the file will be located at `/etc/ssl/certs/ca-bundle.crt` for CentOS, Redhat.
```

Once the HAProxy configuration is in place, you can reload it or restart HAProxy. **It is recommended to have a `cron` job that reloads HAProxy every 10 minutes** (usually doing something like `service haproxy reload`) to force a refresh of HAProxy's DNS cache, in case `app.datadoghq.eu` fails over to another IP.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

#### Agent configuration

> Then edit the `datadog.yaml` Agent configuration file and set `logs_no_ssl` to `true`. This is needed as Haproxy does not simply forward the traffic and is not the Datadog backend so cannot use the same certificate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then edit the `datadog.yaml` Agent configuration file and set `logs_no_ssl` to `true`. This is needed as HAProxy does not simply forward the traffic and is not the Datadog backend so cannot use the same certificate.
```

> **Note**: `logs_no_ssl` might set to true because Haproxy is configured to encrypt the data. Do not set this parameter to `true` otherwise.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: `logs_no_ssl` might set to true because HAProxy is configured to encrypt the data. Do not set this parameter to `true` otherwise.
```

```
logs_config:
  logs_dd_url: "<PROXY_SERVER_DOMAIN>:10514"
  logs_no_ssl: true
```

> ### Using NGINX as a TCP Proxy for logs

Reviewer 3: How about adding the HTTP counter-part  section? 
The previous nginx configuration based on **_streams_** works well for both TCP and HTTP and is very similar to what is done with HAProxy. 
But in many nginx implementations we see people using **_http_** blocks in their configs hence this suggestion:
This would assume using the following type of settings:

**1. datadog.yaml**

```    
dd_url: https://6-15-1-app.agent.datadoghq.com
proxy:
  https: http://10.0.0.249:8888
  http: http://10.0.0.249:8888

skip_ssl_validation: true
logs_enabled: true
logs_config:
  logs_dd_url: agent-http-intake.logs.datadoghq.com:443 # HTTP direct
  use_http: true
  use_compression: true
  compression_level: 6
```

**2. nginx.conf**

```
user www-data;
worker_processes auto;
events { }

http {
    server_names_hash_bucket_size 128;

    access_log /var/log/nginx_access.log;
    error_log /var/log/nginx_errors.log;

    # Whitelist dataodghq.com and datadoghq.eu
    server {
        listen       8888;
        server_name *.datadoghq.com;
        server_name *.datadoghq.eu;
        #server_name ~^(.+)$; #catch all 
        proxy_connect;
        proxy_max_temp_file_size 0;
        resolver 8.8.8.8;
        location / {
           proxy_pass http://$http_host;
           proxy_set_header Host $http_host;
        }
    }

    # Disable all other domains
    server {
        listen       8888;
        server_name ~.+;
        return 404;
    }

}
```
And last but not least, using the **_ngx_http_proxy_connect_module_** as per 
https://github.com/chobits/ngx_http_proxy_connect_module

**3. ngx_http_proxy_connect_module**

Nginx is can be configured for forwarding proxying. Unfortunately, that doesn't work very well with HTTPS connections. As soon the user is calling a URL via https, Nginx will throw errors. There is a StackOverflow issue to that topic (https://superuser.com/questions/604352/nginx-as-forward-proxy-for-https). In short SSL Forwarding doesn't  work well when trying to do it using http block
(That said It does when using stream block).
 
Luckily there is a solution for that problem. The ngx_http_proxy_connect_module is solving this issue. If Nginx is compiled with that module, the proxying will work with SSL connections as well.

```
ubuntu@ip-10-0-0-249:~$ wget https://nginx.org/download/nginx-1.14.2.tar.gz
ubuntu@ip-10-0-0-249:~$ tar xvf nginx-1.14.2.tar.gz
ubuntu@ip-10-0-0-249:~$ cd nginx-1.14.2
ubuntu@ip-10-0-0-249:~/nginx-1.14.2 $ git clone https://github.com/chobits/ngx_http_proxy_connect_module
ubuntu@ip-10-0-0-249:~/nginx-1.14.2 $ patch -p1 < ~/ngx_http_proxy_connect_module/patch/proxy_connect_1014.patch
ubuntu@ip-10-0-0-249:~/nginx-1.14.2 $ ./configure --add-module=./ngx_http_proxy_connect_module
ubuntu@ip-10-0-0-249:~/nginx-1.14.2 $ make && make install
```
From there the newly built nginx version can be used along with the configuration files (datadog.yaml and nginx.conf)

**4. Additional resources**
Boyan's great contributions:
- Configs (Agent + nginx) using stream  : https://github.com/ncracker/dd-nginx-proxy
- Docker image : https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/ncracker/dd-nginx-proxy

Misiu  & Oskar 
- Docker image with the above patched nginx: https://github.com/DataDog/Miscellany

Author: Thanks for this.

Let's sync internally on this.

This example explains how to configure the Datadog Agent to send logs in TCP to a server with NGINX installed and listening on port `10514` to then forward the logs to Datadog.

`agent ---> nginx ---> Datadog`

#### NGINX configuration

> This example `nginx.conf` can be used to proxy Agent traffic to Datadog. The last server block in this configuration does TLS wrapping to ensure internal plaintext logs are encrypted between your proxy and Datadog's log intake API endpoint:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, `nginx.conf` can be used to proxy Agent traffic to Datadog. The last server block in this configuration does TLS wrapping to ensure internal plaintext logs are encrypted between your proxy and Datadog's log intake API endpoint:
```

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Datadog US site" %}}

```conf
user nginx;
worker_processes auto;
error_log /var/log/nginx/error.log;
pid /run/nginx.pid;

events {
    worker_connections 1024;
}
# TCP Proxy for Datadog Agent
stream {
    server {
        listen 10514; #listen for logs
        proxy_ssl on;
        proxy_pass agent-intake.logs.datadoghq.com:10516;
    }
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Datadog EU site" %}}

```conf
user nginx;
worker_processes auto;
error_log /var/log/nginx/error.log;
pid /run/nginx.pid;

events {
    worker_connections 1024;
}
# TCP Proxy for Datadog Agent
stream {
    server {
        listen 10514; #listen for logs
        proxy_ssl on;
        proxy_pass agent-intake.logs.datadoghq.eu:443;
    }
}
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

#### Agent configuration

> Then edit the `datadog.yaml` Agent configuration file and set `logs_config.logs_dd_url` to use the newly created proxy instead of establishing a connection directly with Datadog:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Edit the `datadog.yaml` Agent configuration file and set `logs_config.logs_dd_url` to use the newly created proxy instead of establishing a connection directly with Datadog:
```

```yaml
logs_config:
  logs_dd_url: myProxyServer.myDomain:10514
```

> Do not change the `logs_no_ssl` parameter as NGINX is simply forwarding the traffic to Datadog and does not decrypt or encrypt the traffic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Note**: Do not change the `logs_no_ssl` parameter as NGINX is simply forwarding the traffic to Datadog and does not decrypt or encrypt the traffic.
```
